---
title: 'Blog Post number 2'
date: 2021-02-01
permalink: /posts/2021/02/blog-post-2/
tags:
  - variations
  - cello
---

# A blog on Kyrie renditions from Guillaume de Machuat

* In Oxford Camerata’s version of Machaut’s Kyrie there are clearly defined moments of Polyphony with moments of the different sounds merging into Homophony. The main pitches in the melody are mostly conjunct and within regular human speech tones but the moments of polyphony are defined through a higher voice which is different from the rest. Interestingly, even within the voices which define polyphony there are subtle voices which create an internal homophony with that higher pitched voice. 


* Graindelavoix is defined with polyphony over a long time. So although the time which the voices are holding the sound can last for a few seconds many of those voices seem to be on different pitches and notes and break away independently from each other. There are very well defined moments of homophony but I would say that for the most part Graindelavoix is a polyphony. This rendition also seems to have more voices than Oxford’s, in this way the Graindelavoix rendition is able to achieve a wider range of pitches and rhythms. If I were to imagine the sound as coming from one instrument, I could also say that the contour of Graindelavoix is disjunct because of the wide range of pitches that seem to happen one after the other (sometimes at the same time).


* I believe  version exemplifies Mauchaut’s “fusion of sacred and secular music” innovations better because I can imagine chants from the liturgy being defined by the main pitches in the main melody and hints of secular being defined through the polyphony (Boynton 2009, 248). 
* I believe Graindelavoix’s rendition sound more modern because and in a modern sense I can claim it to also exemplify Mauchaut’s intersecting style because of how some pitches are arranged in a middle eastern way while still retaining a european identity (Boynton 2009, 239). I believe that Graindelavoix’s rendition also has hints of dissonances I hear through the lower pitched voices in the rendition (Swed 2020, 2).

```
Swed, Mark. Machaut's 'Notre Dame': Why a 14th Century Mass Is the Genesis of Modern Music, Los Angeles Times, 8 Aug. 2020, www.msn.com/en-us/music/news/machauts-notre-dame-why-a-14th-century-mass-is-the-genesis-of-modern-music/ar-BB16u8Hk.

Boynton, Susan. “Religious Soundscapes: Liturgy and Music.” Chapter. In The Cambridge History of Christianity, edited by Miri Rubin and Walter Simons, 4:238–53. Cambridge History of Christianity. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2009. doi:10.1017/CHOL9780521811064.018.
```
