---
title: 'Blog Post 4'
date: 2021-03-13
permalink: /posts/2021/13/blog-post-4/
tags:
  - Joseph Haydn
  - Symphony No. 6, "Le matin." 
  - Symphony
  - sonata allegro form
---


Transcription of the commentary during the unveiling of Joseph Haydn's Symphony No. 6, "Le matin." 
* 0:00 - Alright folks and it seems we’re getting started with a violin, its rhythm is steady and..
* 0:12 - Okay here’s a second violin coming in and it sounds like...
* 0:23 - Oh and Haydns really getting started now with the flute, Oboe, little-horn, bassoon, 2 violins, viola, and the cello. And the crowd is going wild with the range timbres.
* 0:45 - It seems Haydn knew this would happen as he is using that energy to focus us back in on the violin, I don’t yet know his plan…
* 1:03 - That’s it , the sound is alive with an energetic flute and pulsing violins, it’s so joyful I would be wrong to not call it allegro since we’re actually speaking italian.
* 1:13 - That focus on the violins just replicated itself to all the instruments, this is really picking up, I feel like we’re just being bombarded with energy coming from all the instruments again. Lets call this tutti.
* 1:41 - And just as we were getting that all the instruments didn’t need to take turns in order to be heard, Haydn is showing us the voice of each instrument one by one, amazing what a little clarity can do to the senses.
* 1:59 - It seems like Haydns not done with the allegro yet.
* 2:07 - and the tutti is making a second appearance let’s see what Haydn has planned for us now.
* 2:13 - oh we haven’t heard those tones before! He definitely has something planned for us.
* 2:55 - Oh and it seems we’re returning to the allegro but this time something is different … It seems that the flute notes are shifted up while the violin notes are shifted down, Haydn is definitely trying to widen our..
* 3:07 - seems like Haydn is showing us the antithesis.
* 3:20 - what a marvelous explosion of sound! The crowd is going wild.
* 3:31 - and geez is that an “anti” to a thesis, I mean just listen to all the slowed tempo.
* 3:44 - and the horn is finally getting a chance to rumble the crowds souls.
* 4:12 and were back to the allegro, it seems we’re returning home, 
* 4:29 - and the first movement is declared as over.

