---
title: 'Blog Post 3'
date: 2021-02-14
permalink: /posts/2021/14/blog-post-3/
tags:
  - Dido and Æneas
  - recitavo
  - aria
  - overture
  - aperatures as said by Wayn McGregor
---

After watching the opera, please elaborate on how the music structure moves the plot.
* The music structure moves the plot by unifying the dynamic movement of the dancers and the shifts in scenes. 

Think about acts, scenes, recitativos, arias, and instrumental interludes. How does the overture foreshadow the drama? 
* The overture especially foreshadows the drama in the transition between I: "Whence could so much virtue spring" and I: "Fear no danger to ensue", the shift is supported by harmony between the notes by difference in rhythm.

What is the function of the chorus? 
* The chorus's function is to be an architectural structure.

How does the chorus comment on the storyline? 
* The chorus comments on the storyline through the way it supports the central character and makes their singular presence better known, this is Stage Director Wayne McGregor's intention and is made clear by his decision to use very open sets  ("Dido And Æneas – An Interview With Wayne Mcgregor Documentary On The Royal Opera House's Production, 2009" 2009). 

What is the function of the recitativo? 
* The recitativo's function seems to be to express the character's emotional state (i.e. the words couldve been delivered in monotone and in the same intensity but they werent.)

What is the function of the aria?
* The aria's function seems to be to add tonal range to the recitavo ( especially notable in II, 2: "Stay Prince"). 

Then zoom into Dido's lament and outline where the recitativo starts and where it ends, and where the aria starts. Compare them texturally, melodically. Use the musical terms you have learned so far. 
* In Dido's lament, the recitavo starts at 48:30 and ends at 51:31, the aria starts at 48:15.
* The monophony of the recitavo texturally differs from the arias role as accompaniment . Melodically, the recitavo's high register, and narrow pitched melody differs from the aria's medium register and medium range melody ("Purcell's Dido And Æneas" 2009).



```
Bibliography

"Purcell's Dido And Æneas". 2009. Edu-Medici-Tv.Ezproxy.Cul.Columbia.Edu. https://edu-medici-tv.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/en/operas/dido-and-aeneas-purcell-lucy-crowe-sarah-connolly-covent-garden-2009/.

"Dido And Æneas – An Interview With Wayne Mcgregor Documentary On The Royal Opera House's Production, 2009". 2009. Edu-Medici-Tv.Ezproxy.Cul.Columbia.Edu. https://edu-medici-tv.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/en/operas/dido-and-aeneas-purcell-lucy-crowe-sarah-connolly-covent-garden-2009/.

```
