---
title: 'Blog Post number 1'
date: 2021-01-25
permalink: /posts/2021/01/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - variations
  - cello
---


 What is the instrumental focus of the variation?
Variation G: Cellos
How do you imagine the sound is produced? Blowing air, bowing strings, plucking strings, hitting a surface? What material is the instrument made of? Is it a big or small instrument? Are there different kinds? 


* I think the cello classically produces sound when bowed. I believe cellos are usually made wood but the strings are made of metal. I think the instrument is usually about the size of a human arm. I believe the main kinds would be medium sized and large-medium because some sounds are a little deeper than others, they may all be the same size though because the range in tone seems narrow. 


Describe the sound quality of the instrument. How do you think it is related to the way the sound is produced?


* The sound quality of the instrument is very resonating. Perhaps the relating to the sound and the instrument is that a cello might have a hollow frame through which the sound is expressed. 


Does it remind you of anything in particular (character, a moment in a movie, a place)? If so, what? And why is that?


* The sound of the cello reminds me of the film fantasia because it is so moody and has its own presence which can guide a story.


What feeling does it evoke within you?


* I feel nostalgic when listening to it ( not because of fantasia ) but more because the music is  very evocative of thought and emotion like the song by adele “when we were young”.


How do you think it is related to the theme? 


* I think the variation is related to the theme in the way that it creates a base on which the other music can be more formal.

